<h1>Optimization Challenges: Restaurant Chain Expansion and Tower Adventure Pathfinding</h1>

<h2>Description</h2>
This problem set contains two distinct algorithmic challenges. The first problem involves helping a fast-food chain (Burger Queen) optimize restaurant placement along a freeway to maximize revenue while maintaining minimum distance requirements between locations. The second problem presents a tower-climbing puzzle where an adventurer must navigate through floors with multiple locations, collecting keys while defeating monsters, and finding the optimal path to reach exits. Both problems require efficient algorithmic solutions, with the first focusing on maximizing value under constraints and the second involving pathfinding with multiple objectives (minimizing time while ensuring key collection). These problems test understanding of optimization, graph algorithms, and efficient space-time complexity implementations.
<br />


<h2>Languages and Utilities Used</h2>

- <b>Python</b> 

<h2>Problems:</h2>
<h3>Problem 1:</h3>
<p>
  Burger Queen, a popular chain of fast food restaurants, is planning to open its restaurants along a newly built freeway. They have identified N potential sites along the freeway such that the distance between every two consecutive sites is exactly 1 km. They have also estimated the expected annual revenue generated by each site if a restaurant is opened at the site. Due to different demographics and locations, each site may generate a different annual revenue. It is company policy that no two restaurants can be within d kms of each other. They have hired you to help them choose the sites to open restaurants such that no two restaurants are within d kms of each other and the overall revenue is maximised. The company has an unlimited budget and they are happy to open any number of restaurants as long as no two restaurants are within d kms of each other. 
</p>
<p>
  You need to write a Python function named restaurantFinder(d,site_list) which takes two arguments: d is the distance parameter d; and site_list is a list of size N containing annual revenue (in million dollars) for each site, i.e., i th number in the list is ri denoting the annual revenue of the site i if a restaurant is opened at the site. site_list contains the sites in the order they appear along the freeway, e.g., for each i, the distance between i th and (i + x) th site is x kms. You can assume that d is always a non-negative integer and site_list always contains at least 1 site. 
</p>
The function must return a tuple (total_revenue, selected_sites) where selected_sites is a list containing the site numbers where the company should open their restaurants to maximise the revenue. The list selected_sites must contain the site numbers in ascending order. total_revenue is the total annual revenue if the company opens restaurants at the sites in selected_sites. 
<p>
<p>
  Your function must solve the problem using O(N) space and O(N) time in the worst-case.
</p>

<h3>Problem 2:</h3>
<p>
  One day, a tower appeared out of nowhere with the message – “Reach the top of the tower and your wish will be granted”. Thus, everyone flocked to the entrance of the tower hoping to have their wish granted. You are one such adventurer, hoping to see the night sky at the top of the tower.
</p>
<p>
  To your surprise, there is a map that shows the layout of floors of the tower. For example, the first floor map shows that:

- There are |V| locations in the map.
- The entrance is shown in the map. This is where you enter the floor, there is only one entrance to the floor.
- There can be 1 or more exits shown in the map. This is where you will always exit to the next floor.
- There are |E| edges that connect the locations of a floor together.
- You can go from location-u to location-v, if a path e = (u, v) exists. However, you can not go from location-v to location-u unless the opposite path e′ = (v, u) exist as well in the map.
- It would take x-minutes to traverse that specific path e = (u, v, x). The time to traverse each path could vary, and would be stated in the map itself.

</p>
Thus, you would want to use the map to reach an exit as fast as possible. However, you noticed strange markers in the map:

- There are |K| keys positioned at certain locations in the map.
- A key is needed in order to move on to the next floor. Without a key, you are powerless at the any of the exits location. You can exit the floor using any key.
- Each key is however defended by a monster. It would take y-minutes to defeat the monster a retrieve the key. This vary depending on keys, but you would always need to defeat a monster! Eventually... The map automatically calculates this based on your current capabilities. In other words, you would be given the time it would take you to defeat a monster defending a key.
- If you are at the same location as that of a key, you can choose not to engage with the monster and continue moving along path. In other words, if you choose to fight the monster, you will be able to collect the key but will spend y minutes defeating the monster and getting the key. If you choose not to fight the monster, you do not need to spend any time but you will leave the location without getting the key.
<p>
<p>
  The start and exits changes every time you enter the floor. However, the map remains unchanged. Thus, this causes a challenge for the adventurers. Unlike them, you are a SSSranked computer scientist, with the power of algorithms and data structures – to climb the tower as fast as possible, computing the fastest path to go from the start to one of the exits.
</p>

